---
layout: post
title: configuring Vim
published: true
---

Before doing anything, just go on Youtube to listen [Eric Burdon and War](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4nJ9I0dZ7Vo&t=59s), it will help you.

## it's a great job!

_Vim_ configuration sits in one configuration file (`~/.vimrc` by default) and a directory (`~/.vim` by default). The best way to configure _Vim_ is with a plugin manager such _Vundle_. Since version 8, _Vim_ has it's own plugin manager. Today, _Vim 8_ can be easily installed on a lot of distributions so I will show this method. Because an old system of mine can't have _Vim 8_, I will show you the _old_ way to manage plugins with `vim-plug`, a _Minimalist Vim Plugin Manager_, as they say on their [site](https://github.com/junegunn/vim-plug).

Finally, I want a full IDE made with _Vim_. Great job, hard work.

### reloading `~/.vimrc`

While you're listening Eric Burdon (his version of _nights in white satin_ is really beautiful), learn the first useful command to know while configuring _Vim_ and which is _how to reload the configuration file_. If your current buffer contains `~/.vimrc`, you just do:

```vim
:source %
```

where the `%` design the file in the current buffer. You can for the name of the file with:

```vim
:source ~/.vimrc
```

You had to be careful, too much `source` can hide some flaws so, time to time, restart _Vim_.

## basic configuration

Before all, we had to tell _Vim_ that we don't want compatibility with old, very old, very very old versions of _vi_:

```vim
" no compatibility with old versions
" of vi, must be one of the first directives
set nocompatible
```

The first configuration I do, is setting line numbers. Add this in your `~/.vimrc`:

```vim
" show line numbers
set number
```

After that, I set tabulations as 4 spaces:

```vim
" tabulations
set tabstop=4
set softtabstop=0
set expandtab
set shiftwidth=4
set smarttab
```

